## Conference Dinner

The first night of Scala World will host the conference dinner, a three-course
meal of the finest local Cumbrian produce, served by the staff at Rheged
Centre. We have given particular attention to the quality and variety of food
we have available at Scala World, and a delicious menu of locally-sourced grub
has been put together by the culinary experts at Rheged.

![Paul Phillips](/images/extempore2.png)

### The Eyjafjallajökull Lecture

Back in 2010, at the inaugural Scala Days in Switzerland, the first major Scala
conference, a then-disparate community of hackers came together to learn and
share ideas about an exciting new programming language. During the conference,
an Icelandic volcano (whose name nobody could pronounce) erupted, causing a
cloud of ash to cover most of Europe, grounding all civilian flights, and
stranding many of the Scala Days attendees in Lausanne, unable to fly home.

But out of this chaos, the community showed its typical resolve and generosity,
and groups of Scala developers came together in the days that followed for food
and beer, hacking sessions, and hastily-made sleeping arrangements. In those
few days, some important code was written, and some great friendships were
established.

So, in that community spirit, and recognizing the role it played in Scala’s
history, Scala World will host the first Eyjafjallajökull Lecture after dinner
on 21 September, to be delivered by the inimitable Paul Phillips.

### Dinner

The team of chefs at the Rheged Centre will prepare a lavish seated
three-course menu for Scala World guests in Mountain Hall.

*Starter* Pressed Cumbrian ham hock terrine serve with red onion, apple and
blackberry chutney served with a roasted hazelnut leaf salad

*Starter (vegetarian)* Roasted butternut squash soup served with sour cream and
roasted onion focaccia from our local bakery 

*Main course* Slow braised feather of Lakeland beef served with a red wine and
onion sauce and Yorkshire pudding

*Main course (vegetarian)* Cumbrian homity pie made with local cheese, slow
cooked onion and thyme served with a sweet slow cooked onion gravy

*Dessert* Dark chocolate mousse topped with honey-combe, sour cream and lime
zest

*Tea and coffee*

Menus are subject to change. We try very hard to accommodate any special
dietary requirements, and vegetarian and other alternatives will be made
available on request. There will be an option on the [registration
form](/registration) to specify details.

