## Fellwalking

Hiking in the Lake District, known as fellwalking, is the best way to
experience the beautiful scenery of the lakes and mountains of Cumbria. A few
villages and small towns are sprinkled across the landscape, nestled in the
valleys and around the shores of the lakes, but much of the countryside of
Lakeland, particularly the central fells, is wilderness, and as distant from
bustling cities as you will find anywhere in England.

## Equipment

Paths up to the mountains in Lakeland vary from well-kept tracks to barely
existent memories, and while paved paths and stone steps are common, other
routes may involve walking across bogs, through streambeds or up steep
scrambles, needing the use of four or more limbs. As an absolute minimum, we
recommend a pair of good walking boots, preferably waterproof; if in doubt
about their ability to withstand water, waterproof socks are available from
many of the local outdoor shops in Keswick and Ambleside, and are a valuable
investment which can make the difference between an enjoyable hike and a
laborious trudge.

A lightweight waterproof jacket and waterproof trousers should be worn if rain
is expected, though in sunshine on a clear day, shorts and t-shirt are a more
comfortable choice, and should be adequate, provided you don't linger in strong
winds. If in doubt, pack an extra layer.

Another useful piece of equipment when climbing is a stick, or walking pole.
Although not particularly useful on the ascent, a stick (or two) will transfer
some of the burden of the descent from your legs to your arms, and you will
appreciate it for days afterwards.

## Weather

The Lake Distract does not get its name from its many dry valleys, and the rain
is what helps to sculpt the beautiful scenery. Whilst we can put together a
fantastic indoors programme for Scala World, controlling the outdoors is beyond
our capabilities, so we are, as ever, at the mercy of Britain’s skies.
Nevertheless, being late September, the weather will still be mild, if not
warm, and the mountains will be free from snow. If it rains, a wet day should
not mean staying indoors: walking in rain is a different experience, but with
good waterproofs it can be just as enjoyable.

Mist and fog often feature heavily in Cumbrian weather, sometimes across the
entire area, and other times localized to valleys. Be very careful in mist:
From afar, it can produce wonderful effects as mountains can seem to appear
then disappear in an instant behind a cloud, though close-at-hand, it can be
very disorientating, aside from being difficult to see where you are going.
Ensure you have a map and compass with you, and check local forecasts before
setting out. If mist is a problem, do not diverge from well-established paths.

## Driving

Lakeland can offer many memorable scenic drives through bucolic lowlands, and
over historic highland passes, and these can be just as much fun in the wet or
the dry. In fact, some would argue that a holiday in Britain is not a proper
holiday if you don’t get to spend at least a day looking at rain on the
windscreen.

From Penrith, we suggest the following [driving route](https://goo.gl/a7N3Yg).
Taking between three and four hours, the route heads west towards Keswick along
the main A66 road, before climbing over the Dunmail Raise and down through
Grasmere to Ambleside.  From Ambleside, we travel into the Great Langdale
Valley, and over the beautifully remote Wrynose Pass, following the river
towards the lowlands of the Dunnerdale Valley. From here we take an elevated
route over Austhwaite Brow, revealing a spectacular panorama of the Central
Fells. We return east across the Hardknott Pass, the steepest road in the UK
(with a gradient of 1 in 3) and approach the Wrynose Pass from the opposite
direction. Returning to Ambleside, we take the Kirkstone Pass road over the
fells to Glenridding, and Ullswater. From here we head northeast, back to
Penrith.

The route has a selection of stopping places en route, and offer plenty of
opportunities to take photographs on the way. A number of traditional pubs and
inns are also dotted along the route, should you wish to stop for sustenance on
the way.

## Navigating

The Scala World speakers were each given one of Wainwright’s delightful
[pictorial guides to the
Lakes](http://www.franceslincoln.com/alfred-wainwright) and asked to choose a
walk. These guides provide wonderfully-detailed descriptions of walks and
mountains, and are a recommended read for anyone planning on hiking at Scala
World. Additionally, the Ordnance Survey’s [Explorer Map
Series](https://goo.gl/JyPDJn) sheets OL4, OL5, OL6 and OL7 provide clear and
detailed coverage of the entire Lakes region. Note that weatherproof versions
are available.

Above all, activities in the Lakes are meant to be fun, so take precautions,
and stay safe.

