## Terms and Conditions

### Conditions of Sale

All participants must pay the registration fees prior to arrival at the
conference venue. We reserve the right to refuse entry to any delegate having
any outstanding conference fees due.

### Cancellation Policy

Attendees to Scala World may cancel their tickets any time up to seven days
before the conference and receive a full refund, subject to a cancellation fee
of £50+VAT. Alternatively, delegates who can no longer attend may substitute a
different delegate to take their place at the conference for no charge. All
changes should be made by notifying the conference organizers in writing at
info@scala.world. Changes made less than seven days before the conference will
be made at the discretion of Propensive Events Ltd.

### Liability

Propensive Events Ltd reserve the right to amend any part of the conference
description at any time, without notice where this is necessary. Propensive
Events Ltd will not accept liability for damages of any nature sustained by
delegates or accompanying persons, or loss of, or damage to their personal
property as a result of Scala World or associated events.

In the event of industrial action, or other unforeseen circumstances,
Propensive Events Ltd accepts no responsibility for loss of monies incurred by
delegates, and delegates are advised to make their own arrangements with
respect to personal and travel insurance.

### Academic Discounts

A limited number of reduced-price tickets will be made available to students
members of academic institutions. These will be available to any student
involved in an undergraduate, master’s or PhD programme at a recognized
academic institution. To prevent abuse of this offer, we may request proof of
eligibility.

### Extra-curricular activities

Activities such as walking, hiking and climbing may take place before and after
the conference. Whilst organizers and other participants of Scala World may
share their plans to be involved in these activities, they are open to the
public, are undertaken on an individual basis, and are not organized by
Propensive Events Ltd and should not be considered a part of the conference.

It is recommended that all participants take any necessary precautions whilst
engaging in extra-curricular activities.

### Code of Conduct

We request thet all attendees to Scala World follow the code of conduct at all
times. We reserve the right to refuse entry, or remove from the conference
building, any attendee we believe is in breach of this code, without
recompense.

In the event of any dispute relating to such an incident, Propensive Events
Ltd’s judgement shall be final.

