## The Unconference

The main Scala World schedule is a curated programme of invited speakers, but
we wanted everyone to have the opportunity to come along and present.

So in addition to the main programme, we have arranged to hold a "Scala Sunday"
unconference session from 3pm - 7pm on *Sunday, 20th September*, at the Rheged
Centre (the same venue as the main conference) where anyone can bring along a
talk or presentation to share.

We would be particularly keen for students who are currently doing research in
Scala to use this opportunity to show off their ideas, but this opportunity is
for everyone!

A number of different-sized rooms have been made available to us for the
unconference, so we will spend the first 20 minutes meeting and planning the
schedule for the remainder of the time. This schedule is likely to accommodate
a combination of talk lengths, from ten-minute lightning talks to 40-minute
sessions, though as a true unconference, we will decide that on the day.

At least one track of talks will be videoed, and chosen speakers will have
their videos published with a beautiful watercolour portrait, just like the
main conference speakers - if that doesn't provide the incentive to submit a
proposal, then nothing will!

### Submitting a Proposal

Being an *unconference*, we won't decide on the schedule until the day, but we
would like to encourage people to propose ideas for talks in advance, so that
attendees can start to plan what they should see at the event. Don't feel you
have to, though - you can still propose a talk on the day!

Here's what you will need to do to submit a proposal:

1. fork the Github repository
[`https://github.com/propensive/scalaworld`](https://github.com/propensive/scalaworld)
2. copy the file `pages/unconference/sample.md` to `pages/unconference/<your
title>.md`
3. edit your proposal
4. submit a pull-request back to `propensive/scalaworld`

We will then give each talk a superficial review, and then publish it on the
website. Feel free to submit more than one talk, if you like.

